---
layout: post
title: New Job
---

I have had a number of coworkers tell me two things:

1. I would love being in a product group at Intel because of the fast paced nature of the work and the go-getter attitude of the teams.
2. I would be a really great technical evangelist.

Which led me down this whole path of what the heck is a technical evangelist...

A technical evangelist might also be known as a developer advocate. If you are a developer in the software or hardware space, maybe you have interacted with one. Basically this person is someone who is passionate about a particular technology or set of technologies and wants to get other people just as excited about it. I feel your mind trying to say "oh so like someone in sales?" Let me stop you before you continue down that route. A tech evangelist is someone who might work with the marketing team, but probably doesn't have a marketing background. The goal of a tech evangelist is to get more people to love the technology, not just use it.

This is where I say, I'm not actually a tech evangelist... yet! I have signed on to the be the [TAP](http://trustedanalytics.org/) community manager. I'm responsible for our [community site](https://community.trustedanalytics.org) and other engagement vectors of the community. This means I'm going to work with literally everyone on the internal team as well as the slew of people sitting externally.

This is not that different to what I was previously doing in the web development space. I was working with developers on how to use the tools and platforms my team owned more efficiently. With a community management role I can be as technical or non-technical as I want, so obviously I'm going to continue to stay technical. I can't not be technical at this point in my life. I love software way too much. So not only will I own the community and engagements with the community, but I will also stay up to speed on the developer perspective of TAP. 

So what is TAP? TAP (Trusted Analytics Platform) is an open source project that accelerates the creation of Big Data analytics based cloud-native applications. There's a piece for data scientists to work with the data, creating and training models and there's a piece for application developers to consume the analytics. 

I am still learning what TAP is and how it works, but the Big Data and analytics space is a really exciting place to be. With so many things becoming smarter and more connected, we have tons of data that could be processed to make our lives even more enriched by technology. I can't wait to see what happens next!  
